# light-codegen
A code generator based on rocker that can be used as a command line utility or web service

## Input

* A list of files as template
* Data model like OpenAPI Specification, Light-Java-Hybrid schema and Graphql IDL.
* Config in JSON format which can be collected as A JSON, command line prompt or web wizard.

## Output

* A project that can be built and executed locally with command line tool
* A zip file that contains a project artifacts. Download, unzip, build and run.

## Usage

### Command Line

To run the command line tool, you need to build the light-codegen locally and run the command
from codegen-cli folder.

```
cd ~/networknt
git clone git@github.com:networknt/light-codegen.git
cd light-codegen
mvn clean install
cd codegen-cli

```

#### light-java-rest

Given we have test swagger.json and config.json in light-java-rest/src/main/resources folder, 
following command line will generate petstore API at /tmp/gen folder. 



```
java -jar target/codegen-cli.jar -f light-java-rest -o /tmp/gen -m ~/networknt/light-codegen/light-java-rest/src/test/resources/swagger.json -c ~/networknt/light-codegen/light-java-rest/src/test/resources/config.json
```

Note: Above command assume that your working directory is ~/networknt
 
After you run the above command, you can build and start the service.

```
cd /tmp/gen
mvn clean install exec:exec
```

To test the service from another terminal.

```
curl http://localhost:8080/v2/pet/11
```

The above example use local swagger specification and config file. Let's try to use files from
github.com


```
java -jar target/codegen-cli.jar -f light-java-rest -o /tmp/petstore -m https://raw.githubusercontent.com/networknt/swagger/master/petstore/swagger.json -c https://raw.githubusercontent.com/networknt/swagger/master/petstore/config.json
```

Please note that you need to use raw url when access github file. The above command line will
generate petstore service in /tmp/petstore.

#### light-java-hybrid server

This is a generate that scaffolds a server platform which can host numeric light-java-hybrid services
that can be generated by the below light-java-hybrid serivce generator. The generated project is just
a skeleton without any service. You have to generate one or more services and put these jar file(s)
into the classpath and start this server. 

For more information about light-java-hybrid, please refer to the [project](https://github.com/networknt/light-java-hybrid) 
and its [document]()


```
java -jar target/codegen-cli.jar -f light-java-hybrid-server -o /tmp/hybridserver -c ~/networknt/light-codegen/light-java-hybrid/src/test/resources/serverConfig.json
```


#### light-java-hybrid service

This is a generator that scaffolds a service module that will be hosted on light-java-hybrid server
platform as a jar file. Multiple modules can be hosted on the same server if needed and they can be
interact with each other through module interface/contract defined by schema files. The generated
project cannot run directly as it is only a small jar without main class. You need to put the jar
file into the classpath of the server to enable the service. If you have multiple jar files, you
should create a folder like /service or /lib and put all jar files into it and put this folder as
part of the classpath when start the server platform.

```
java -jar target/codegen-cli.jar -f light-java-hybrid-service -o /tmp/hybridservice -m ~/networknt/light-codegen/light-java-hybrid/src/test/resources/schema.json -c ~/networknt/light-codegen/light-java-hybrid/src/test/resources/serviceConfig.json
```

Now we have a server and a service generated. Let's start the server with one service deployed. 
first let's build the service and copy the jar file into server folder.

```
cd /tmp/hybridservice
mvn clean install
cp target/petstore-1.0.1.jar /tmp/hybridserver
```
Now let's build the server and start it with one service.

```
cd /tmp/hybridserver
mvn clean install
java -cp petstore-1.0.1.jar:target/petstore-1.0.1.jar com.networknt.server.Server
```

Let's use curl to test one of the services.

```
curl -X POST \
  http://localhost:8080/api/json \
  -H 'cache-control: no-cache' \
  -H 'content-type: application/json' \
  -H 'postman-token: 58bb63eb-de70-b855-a633-5b043bb52c95' \
  -d '{
  "host": "lightapi.net",
  "service": "world",
  "action": "hello",
  "version": "0.1.1",
  "lastName": "Hu",
  "firstName": "Steve"
}'
```


#### light-java-graphql

This is a generator that scaffolds a light-java-graphql project. Currently, it generates schema as
"Hello World" and in the future it will support Graphql IDL to generate schema from IDL.  

```
java -jar target/codegen-cli.jar -f light-java-graphql -o /tmp/graphql -c ~/networknt/light-codegen/light-java-graphql/src/test/resources/config.json
```

Now you should have a project created at /tmp/graphql

```
cd /tmp/graphql
mvn clean install exec:exec
```

Open your browser and point to http://localhost:8080/graphql and graphiql interface will show
up in your browser. 

### Docker Command Line

Above local build and command line utilty works but it is very hard to use that in devops script. 
In order to make scripting easier, we have dockerized the command line utility. 

#### light-java-rest

The following command is using docker image to generate the code into /tmp/light-codegen/generated. 

```
docker run -it -v ~/networknt/light-codegen/light-java-rest/src/test/resources:/light-api/input -v /tmp/light-codegen:/light-api/out networknt/light-codegen -f light-java-rest -m /light-api/input/swagger.json -c /light-api/input/config.json -o /light-api/out/generated
```
On Linux environment, the generated code might belong to root:root and you need to change the
owner to yourself before building it.

```
cd /tmp/light-codegen
sudo chown -R steve:steve generated
cd generated
mvn clean install exec:exec
```
To test it.
```
curl localhost:8080/v2/pet/111
```

#### light-java-hybrid server

The following command is using docker to generate light-java-hybrid server into 
/tmp/light-codegen/hybridserver folder

```
docker run -it -v ~/networknt/light-codegen/light-java-hybrid/src/test/resources:/light-api/input -v /tmp/light-codegen:/light-api/out networknt/light-codegen -f light-java-hybrid-server -c /light-api/input/serverConfig.json -o /light-api/out/hybridserver
```

Let's change the owner and build the server

```
cd /tmp/light-codegen
sudo chown -R steve:steve hybridserver
cd hybridserver
mvn clean install
```
Let's wait until we have a server generated to start the server and test it.


#### light-java-hybrid service

The following command is using docker to generate light-java-hybrid service into
/tmp/light-codegen/hybridservice folder

```
docker run -it -v ~/networknt/light-codegen/light-java-hybrid/src/test/resources:/light-api/input -v /tmp/light-codegen:/light-api/out networknt/light-codegen -f light-java-hybrid-service -m /light-api/input/schema.json -c /light-api/input/serviceConfig.json -o /light-api/out/hybridservice
```

Let's change the owner and build the service

```
cd /tmp/light-codegen
sudo chown -R steve:steve hybridservice
cd hybridservice
mvn clean install

```

To run the server with services, please following the instruction in utility command line.


#### light-java-graphql

The following command is using docker to generate light-java-graphql into 
/tmp/light-codegen/graphql folder

```
docker run -it -v ~/networknt/light-codegen/light-java-graphql/src/test/resources:/light-api/input -v /tmp/light-codegen:/light-api/out networknt/light-codegen -f light-java-graphql -c /light-api/input/config.json -o /light-api/out/graphql
```
Let's change the owner and build the service

```
cd /tmp/light-codegen
sudo chown -R steve:steve graphql
cd graphql
mvn clean install exec:exec

```

To test the server, please follow the instructions above in utility command line.

### Scripting

You can use docker run command to call the generator but it is very complicated for the parameters.
In order to make things easier and friendlier to devops flow. Let's create a script to call the
command line from docker image.

If you look at the docker run command you can see that we basically need one input folder for 
schema and config files and one output folder to generated code. Once these volumes are mapped to 
local directory and with framework specified, it is easy to derive other files based on
convention. 

#### light-java-rest

```
git clone git@github.com:networknt/model-config.git
cd model-config
./generate.sh light-java-rest ~/networknt/model-config/rest/petstore /tmp/petstore
```
Now you should have a project generated in /tmp/petstore/genereted


#### light-java-hybrid server

```
git clone git@github.com:networknt/model-config.git
cd model-config
./generate.sh light-java-hybrid-server ~/networknt/model-config/hybrid/generic-server /tmp/hybridserver
```
Now you should have a project generated in /tmp/hybridserver/generated


#### light-java-hybrid service

```
git clone git@github.com:networknt/model-config.git
cd model-config
./generate.sh light-java-hybrid-service ~/networknt/model-config/hybrid/generic-service /tmp/hybridservice
```

Now you should have a project generated in /tmp/hybridservice/generated


#### light-java-graphql

```
git clone git@github.com:networknt/model-config.git
cd model-config
./generate.sh light-java-graphql ~/networknt/model-config/graphql/helloworld /tmp/graphql
```

Now you should have a project generated in /tmp/graphql/generated

### Codegen Site

The service API is ready. We are working on the UI with a generation wizard.

### Multiple Frameworks

Whether or not you are using command line or the web site to generate code, you can choose more
than one frameworks at a time to combine the framework code together. Normally, you choose one to
generate backend service and another one to generate front end single page application based on
Angular or React. 

For command line tool, you can choose to generate the backend service first to a target directory
and then run another command line to generate the front end application into the same target folder.
The final target folder should have a running application with both front end and back end tightly
integrated together.

For web interface, it is a little bit complicated as both backend and front end frameworks must
be select before triggering generation and the final result will be zipped and moved to download
folder. You first choose the first framework from a dropdown and give model and config (can be a
url link or upload/copy from local file system in JSON format). And then you can choose the second
framework and provide detailed model and config. After all frameworks are selected and configured,
you click the submit button to send the request to the server. The server response will have a
url to the downloadable zip file that contains all the generated files. You just need to click the
link to download the project file to your local drive. Then unzip, build, execute and test your
project. 

